Lessons, we're already here,
and we have this.
What if we wanted to include it?
What would we do?
In the FROM table, so
you do left, run one.
Say, this is the thing that I was getting
messed up on, left to right, it's right.
So we do what's called a RIGHT JOIN,
which basically means that anything
that exists in the recipe table.
Sorry, the, yeah, the recipe, that's fine.
Anything that exists in the joining table,
not the FROM table, the original table.
I wanna include anything that doesn't have
a corresponding thing in the other table,
you would do a RIGHT JOIN to include
things from the joining table,
To right table.
As you can see,
I can never keep it straight in my head,
so I normally have to do both to
make sure I'm doing the correct one.
But you can see here,
now this is being included even though
it doesn't have a photo to include.
You can imagine this being useful if
we're trying to include a results set for
all of our recipes.
We wanna include recipes
that don't have photos,
that's totally fine that
they don't have photos.
They should still be shown on the site and
will show some default thing.
That's what a RIGHT JOIN is useful for.
For some reason we had photos
that didn't have recipes.
Then we need to use LEFT JOIN, right?
If you wanna include both, I think it's
full join, if I remember correctly.
Not generally one that I think
a lot about, but it's out there.
As I said,
I think 95% of what I do is inner joins.
The last five,
let's say 4.9% of it is left and
right and 0.1%,
I'd have no idea what I'm doing.
One thing that I didn't show you here,
technically, it's a RIGHT OUTER JOIN.
So you can actually include
that OUTER there, but
the word OUTER is optional,
as oppose to INNER JOIN, right.
Which is only include
everything that matches up.
There you go.
So I was right, it is a full OUTER JOIN.
If you wanted to include everything,
this is not gonna be any different
than our RIGHT OUTER JOIN.
Because there's nothing that exists in
photos without recipes because that
wouldn't make any sense, we wouldn't
have photos that don't have recipes.
But if you did,
FULL OUTER JOIN would include both.
In other words,
FULL OUTER JOIN is LEFT plus RIGHT JOIN or
LEFT plus INNER plus RIGHT,
whatever you wanna call that.
So let's go look at this
really cool graphic I got from
Wikipedia, that's helpful to look at.
This one right here,
you can think of it like a Venn diagram,
this is INNER JOIN, most of the time what
you want between table A and table B.
A RIGHT JOIN includes everything
in the middle plus everything
that's not included in the LEFT table
that exists in the RIGHT table.
There's a LEFT JOIN here and
these top ones are most of what
you're gonna do most of the time.
If for some reason you wanted to include,
you wanted to use a table to
exclude something in there,
Maybe you have,
a user that has chosen to ignore a bunch
of other users in their timeline, right?
So you have this table that user
A has ignored user B, C, and D, and
you're trying to make their timeline.
So what you would basically
do is you do this right here.
This RIGHT JOIN, and
then do a right key is null, so
you're just including
the outer side of it.
So you'll exclude all those
people in the middle,
the users that were ignored by user A, and
get everyone to the rest of your timeline.
I'll tell you it kinda do that
ignore list sort of pattern, right?
Or deny list or
whatever you wanna call it.
To make sense, that's what you would do,
use something like this.
There's a FULL OUTER JOIN
where basically you can say,
exclude everything where they overlap.
This is the FULL OUTER JOIN right here.
We just looked at that,
rather and vice versa there.
So that's kind of the full
possibility of JOINS, again,
this one's the most common,
these two are a little bit more common.
Fathom to the only example I can
think of to do one of these, right.?
And yeah, cool any questions?
>> I'm still a little confused.
So RIGHT JOIN returns a bunch more stuff
because it's the INNER JOIN plus,
what again?
>> So as you're just saying, if you have a
world that doesn't have something to match
with it, what do you wanna do?
Do you wanna include the right side?
Do you wanna include the left side?
Do you wanna include neither?
Inner join just include the inner
part of the Venn diagram.
Left and right is saying take from left or
take from the right, and
then full is include everything.
>> And the left and right is
basically the left side of the ON or
the right side of the ON?
>> Left is gonna be stuff from the FROM,
right is gonna be stuff from the ON.
But I have to check that every time,
cuz I can never remember.
Usually is from both
queries we see that one.
[LAUGH]
>> Is that opposite, though, cuz-
>> It might be, C.
>> It may be opposite
>> [LAUGH]
>> Because we found on the recipes photos,
>> And we don't wanna include those.
>> Yeah, so it was the, my God,
I'm confusing myself never mind.
>> Yeah, I'm also confusing myself too,
and you are not helping, I'm just kidding.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] I'm just kidding.
>> But
there where you could switch the FROM, and
then if you switch FROM and ON,
look at the one you listed first.
You could still do FROM recipe
instead of recipe_photos, and
then LEFT JOIN on recipe_photos, and
you just switch the join direction.
>> Yeah.
>> Do the same thing.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.